what's going on guys this meteoric I'm
Jess and I'm show food I'm we're here at
the Full Sail University bachelor for
the first ever game maker challenge
we're teaming up with students for 48
hours to create a game from start to
finish and the times up will come
together see which team has the best
game and choose a winner okay I think
the students just arrived so let's go
check them out 48 hours is not a long
time whatsoever to create a video game
do you guys want to go I'm starting here
they're gonna be up all night every
night that's crazy I truly their in
there how they get it to it thank you
guys for coming to the Full Sail
University game make a challenge and you
may have noticed that we've got a clock
here that says 48 hours you are gonna
have to be creating a game concept to
completion within those 48 hours means
that you're going to have to start with
your game concept what are you going to
make second is going to be your art and
design what is it gonna look like next
is your album functionality does your
character jump when you tell it to jump
your beta functionality with audio
integration when your character jumps
will your character be able to make a
sound at the same time that it jumps and
last will be your final product once we
review all the games and we decide on
the winner the winner will receive a
console of their choice nice but if you
don't win then why're you still get a
game whirlwind is one of us will be
pairing up with each of your teams let's
make it fair we're gonna pull all three
of the names out of a hat
I'm next the professionals the red ducks
Giga breakers
okay so who wants to hit them once we
give it away you're gonna have one hour
from when this clock starts oh you're
gonna meet the basic concept down so
without further ado the theme is
ready dream big you guys ready for the
48 hours to start yeah game made from
scratch within 48 hours it's probably
about 5 to 10 solid minutes of
playability so to make an actual Triple
A game takes years and years so just
putting it into that perspective makes
it even more impressive that they're
gonna be making an entire game in two
days
I am imagining something very similar to
a mobile game of course is going to be
some bug's expect that honestly dream
big do you have like any like starting
ideas start small and you know you get
bigger in some form yeah there's a lot
of gameplay that can happen yeah it's
just a simple platformer so we have
simple art and the programming we go
pretty simple but we can still have like
a big mean concept behind it the idea I
had was you're actually a sound wave
frequency and the evil thing is a sound
producer that's trying to get rid of
that frequency and the enemies kind of
become like a typical crappy pop you're
doing then we got to thank side scroll
or top down 2.5 D dollar type of deals I
don't really want to do side scroller
you just do top down you know in Mario
are we doing if a runner like bedroom I
really wind runner would be better what
if we just have like a basic shape and
when you absorb things you could like
those shapes are absorbing go on to the
character and like Bill you're my fav
snake actually the foreground of the
limits will be doodly platform OSA like
a kids during but yeah so gameplays
basically gonna be shooting dodge it's
an enemies they can fly past you doesn't
have any more gosh it doesn't matter as
long as you like to avoid them yeah I
like that too do you want them always to
shoot at you you want them to only shoot
at you within a rain you could probably
have a little bit of everything like
burying enemy types but as you hit
enemies are colored in your change of
color and so when you turn blue you run
a little bit slower she can be a little
more accurate so a bullet hell yeah
a bullet hell game is basically
down there's a bunch of bullets shooting
everywhere your goal is dodge and shoot
back so we have top-down 3d evolving
shooter where your circle and there are
orphans that join us and grant abilities
you start off as a circle you find these
orphan geometry shapes you essentially
absord get stronger and become a more
complex shape and they help you by
granting you an ability as a little
progresses it just gets harder and
harder and harder well obviously John is
going to be bullet hell you know they're
scrolling down from it and you start at
the bottom and you're moving from side
to side well yeah I mean they're coming
towards you the concept that my team
came up with is a bullet hell game the
character per se is a wavelength or a
frequency every movement you make has to
be to the deep of the music and the
player itself creates the melody through
all the actions he's making every shot
you make all the power-ups you pick up
add two of the music and the end you end
up making some really cool music let's
get to work this
right now we're gonna do is just jumping
yes game concept comes from the core
mechanics of the infinite runner game
with platforming elements
it's dreaming big our designer is like
oh let's go win tomorrow we're doing it
as a child's doodle so you're gonna be a
little doodle bird that's gonna be
running along little cartoon platforms
like most event runners game it's
straight across ours is actually going
to be slowly angling up to be able to
increase the difficulty as things are
moving faster and faster yo how's it
going it's gone all right my game is
pretty good easy win really yeah sir
game about we go this cool autoscroller
and the style of Robot Unicorn Attack oh
we've already got the title screen down
might have been doing this like what an
hour wow I'm in Fred my team's game
we're making a ba Baracus bullet hell
game and wait wait wait wait wait my
team's making a bullet hell games haha
seriously yes so we're making the same
here essentially yeah what are you
laughing at
alright well the way I see it my team
they got some real unique and creative
so if you want to stay with a bullet
hell game I'm perfectly fine with it I
think it's a good idea in theory but in
competition you've got a better chance
of winning because we're thinking the
way I see it I think my team can adapt
very well to any changes so what are you
saying I'm saying that we can change and
make it even more awesome than before
that's a great answer because I find all
of this irrelevant because my team's
gonna win anyway whoa whoa everyone's
gonna look out here alright may the best
team win
sorry congratulating good no oh my god
man that's not letting me use the
wrapper yeah they're not included in
frog oh this stuff is not easy are we
doing x64
could we do x86 2 it's time-consuming
you'll have to stay up hours and hours
and hours and hours I think for the
title theme a few adjustments let's make
the snare take down the audio a little
bit on that okay cool this sounds great
within one hour of concepts we already
had title menu music down we have two
people working on art and one of them is
already pretty much fully designed the
the lead character what you want your
swimming yeah I love the fortune these
guys know what they're doing we've
already go jump down all game is
literally you just run and jump so
that's like a 50% on to mechanics down
and you have like what 1 through 6 math
or whatever and it chooses gee guys guys
I got some really bad news we need to
change our game why there is another
team over there that is making the exact
same game that we are part yeah a bullet
hell top-down shooter bullet hell
you